Alex Moore
Riots Reforms and Revolutions
The Legacy of the Bolshevik Revolution
The Bolshevik revolution's main legacy was the introduction of communism and socialism on a larger scale. This larger use of socialism changed many nations forever. During the Russian civil war, the Bolsheviks fought alongside many other groups, like the black army. These other groups might not have had the same ideas as the bolsheviks, but they did share the goal of changing the way western civilization worked. This united effort might not have achieved each of their goals, but this increase in the ideas and the publicity of it helped change people's view of their ideas, which helped change some of the horrible conditions people were in. The Bolsheviks also changed another large part of Europe, when they destabilized the Russian government. This destabilization helped allow for people to have better conditions, at least until Stalin seized power. The change in Russian government was ultimately a good thing, as it got rid of the oppressed and tyrannical rule of the Czars. But even before the murder of them they had lost power, in a letter to the public stating the Czar's abdication, he wrote “Not wishing to separate ourselves from our beloved son, we bequeath our heritage to our brother, the Grand Duke Mikhail Alexandrovich, with our blessing for the future of the Throne of the Russian State.” (The Abdication of Nicholas II) The Czar gave power to his brother while trying to leave russia, because of the Bolshevik revolution, this separation of the czars from power is what lead to a more proletariat centered government, and ultimately to the reconstruction of of Russia’s government. The Bolsheviks also left behind their ideas, which they were very passionate about. Lenin was a hard believer in his cause, and thought he was doing the right thing, this unwavering belief ultimately led to the destruction of stability in the Russian government, but it was not lost on people, even today. There are still many people who want socialism, and multiple countries that have adopted more socialist ideas. There people and countries would not exist had it not been for the sacrifices of the Bolsheviks. The Bolsheviks had an incredibly long legacy, and many of the ideas they had are still around today.

